Welcome back.
It's time to learn about CSI fees or CSP files.
Those are Excel files that we're going to try and create our database in.
Now luckily for us Python has a CSC module and we're going to use the CSP module to do the things that
we're going to do which is to write instead of our text file to a CSP file.
Now if we keep scrolling down here you can read all about the CSC module and how to use it but instead
of going through it line by line let's just code it and show you exactly how it works.
So I'm going to create a new file and this time it's going to be called database dot CSC and let's go
back to our server dot pi and instead of having the right to file function let's write another function
which will be the right to CSC
and this one will be a little bit different because we have to use the CSC module.
So I'm going to actually import it if we go to the documentation.
You can see that we can import it just like this import CSC that comes built in with Python now in here
we're going to do something similar except we're going to open the file that is the CSP file.
We're going to append to this file and we're just going to call it database or in our case database
to all as you say database to here.
Now we have our data that we receive but instead of a file now we have a CSP or a CSP writer.
So we're gonna do a few different things here.
First we're going to write in our CSC these columns now with a CSP file by using these commas so we
have the e-mail column.
The subject column in The Message column and the commas essentially say this is the end of this column.
This is the end of this column and this is the third column.
So we can keep it the way that we have in the database.
Dot text file now in here.
Let's remove what we have here and we're going to say the dot right or writer to write to our CSC file.
And this writer takes different parameters that we can give it.
One is where do we want to write this.
Well we want to write to the database to that is the file that we just opened.
The second is a couple of options that we have now.
If we go to the documentation and we scroll all the way up you see that we have the writer CSP die writer
and then a couple of options.
Now this delimiter quote character and quoting are just options that we can give it that you can read
on your own to tell it how we want to write into this.
Yes FIFA in our case I want the delimiter to be the
that is each item in a row will be separated by a comma and whether we want any quotes around the characters
while I don't want any so this is this could just be an empty string.
And then finally quoting is going to be CSC dot.
Well we can just copy exactly what's over here.
Let's just copy quoting CSB quote minimal
and again just to practice this.
Let's say you wanted to know what quote minimal means.
Again we just look for that in the text and it looks like instructs to write our object to only quote
those fields which contain special characters so essentially it's saying Don't wrap data in quotes unless
we really really need to.
Again something that you don't have to worry about.
This is more of configuration that you can just copy and paste and you can read up on your own what
each of these meet.
The important part is the fact that we're writing to the database with some options.
So now we have this CSP writer object that we can use so this CSP writer can now be used like this.
We can write a row so right row in this right row will contain the data that we want and we have that
right.
We want to write row exactly like we have above like this except the way we write rows is that we give
it just each parameter.
So we want to give it the email variable which we have here the subject variable and then the message
variable
just like that because we already have email subject and message and the CSB writer is smart enough
to say that these are going to be what we want and we just pass it in instead of parameters actually
as a list.
Like so so that this row is going to contain email subject and message that we extract from the data.
Now if we didn't make any mistakes this should work.
But let's check this instead of right to file this to write to CSC.
I'll save go open up the terminal go back to our page and let's go to contact me again.
Let's do w at w dot com some text some text and hit send oh we have a bit of an error here quote character
must be set if quoting enable.
So it looks like I have just a bit of an error here and that is because we actually need a quote character
to not be empty in here.
So if we're going to quote something we just need to say hey what are we going to use.
And in our case we can use the quote sign with the double possibly.
Again we can use whatever we want.
You might use this if you want or this whatever you prefer.
So let's just do a quote that we use in a string.
I'm going to save this.
Give it another go let's refresh actually.
Let's go back and submit again.
All right.
Thank you.
I'll get in touch with you shortly.
And if we go back to our database.
All right.
We have our new data but you see over here that we don't have a new line let's actually open this CSP
far if I go to database dot CSP and I double click here.
All right.
It looks like we're getting our data but our database e-mail and subject are a little bit off.
Ideally.
These are the labels and headers and all the rows come after it.
Now let's go back and submit just a different user.
Let's go a W at a couple of more hits sent.
All right.
We're adding new rows but the only issue is that the first time we add a new row we should have that
extra spacing.
Now this is an easy fix.
If we go to CSB and scroll a little bit down we see that we have a right header method.
So what we'll do instead is actually just add a new line option and just give it an empty string so
let's just clear everything.
Let's just clear everything in here.
We're going to save the database and just have server dot pie.
We're going to go back and submit the forms a couple of times just to make sure that everything works
if I go back and go to my database dot CSP.
All right.
We have our data.
If I open this now.
There we go.
We have our database right here with our headers and our entries so that now I can have as many entries
as possible and people can contact me and I'll always have this database for me to check to see if anybody
who wants to work with me.
Very very cool but there's one other issue here that is right now.
Were you just using an Excel file on the same machine as the server.
You see there's a problem here because now my server and my database are in the same location.
So yeah when the server stops my file is still saved.
But what happens if maybe this computer breaks or something happens to it and I can turn it on anymore.
I've lost my files or maybe we have so much data that we want to store.
Well this is where actual databases come in.
Databases specialize in storing information large scale applications can use databases to store large
amounts of data and then do really interesting things with them kind of like an Excel sheet.
But even more powerful.
And on top of it we can actually have a database on a completely different machine maybe on multiple
machines so that we're guaranteed not to lose that data.